README.md, before:

## RabbitMQ .NET Client [![Build status](https://ci.appveyor.com/api/projects/status/33srpo7owl1h3y4e?svg=true)](https://ci.appveyor.com/project/rabbitmq/rabbitmq-dotnet-client)

This repository contains source code of the [RabbitMQ .NET client](http://www.rabbitmq.com/dotnet.html).
The client is maintained by the [RabbitMQ team at Pivotal](http://github.com/rabbitmq/).


## Dependency (Binaries and Nuget Artifact)

There are two ways to consume the client:

 * [NuGet artifacts](https://www.nuget.org/packages/RabbitMQ.Client/) (`4.x` and `3.6.x` series)
 * [Binary releases](https://github.com/rabbitmq/rabbitmq-server/releases) (`3.6.x` series, distributed with RabbitMQ releases)

[Release archive up to 3.4.3](https://bintray.com/rabbitmq/archive/rabbitmq-dotnet-client) is available from Bintray.


## Tutorials and Documentation

 * [Tutorials](http://www.rabbitmq.com/getstarted.html)
 * [Documentation guide](http://www.rabbitmq.com/dotnet.html)


## Supported Platforms and .NET Releases

The client requires .NET 4.5 or later and as of `4.0.0`, supports and primarily
targets .NET Core.

`3.6.x` releases support Linux and OS X on [Mono](http://www.mono-project.com/).

## Change Log

See [ChangeLog.md](https://github.com/rabbitmq/rabbitmq-dotnet-client/blob/master/ChangeLog.md).

## Building from Source

Please see [How to Run Tests](./RUNNING_TESTS.md) and [Building .NET Core](./BUILD_DOTNET_CORE.md)
for build process overview.

## Contributing

See [Contributing](./CONTRIBUTING.md) and [How to Run Tests](./RUNNING_TESTS.md).


## License

This package, the RabbitMQ .NET client library, is double-licensed under
the Mozilla Public License 1.1 ("MPL") and the Apache License version 2 ("ASL").

Commit message:

Clarify .NET Core version required

README.md, after:

## RabbitMQ .NET Client [![Build status](https://ci.appveyor.com/api/projects/status/33srpo7owl1h3y4e?svg=true)](https://ci.appveyor.com/project/rabbitmq/rabbitmq-dotnet-client)

This repository contains source code of the [RabbitMQ .NET client](http://www.rabbitmq.com/dotnet.html).
The client is maintained by the [RabbitMQ team at Pivotal](http://github.com/rabbitmq/).


## Dependency (Binaries and Nuget Artifact)

### Modern Versions

The client is [distributed via NuGet](https://www.nuget.org/packages/RabbitMQ.Client/) (`5.x` and `4.x` release series).

### Legacy Versions

`3.6.x` and earlier releases were distributed [together with RabbitMQ server 3.6.x](https://github.com/rabbitmq/rabbitmq-server/releases/)
as archives.

[Release archive up to 3.4.3](https://bintray.com/rabbitmq/archive/rabbitmq-dotnet-client) is available from Bintray.


## Tutorials and Documentation

 * [Tutorials](http://www.rabbitmq.com/getstarted.html)
 * [Documentation guide](http://www.rabbitmq.com/dotnet.html)


## Supported Platforms and .NET Releases

`4.x` and `5.x` versions of the library require .NET 4.5.1 or later or .NET Core.
For .NET Core users, 2.0 is the minimum supported version for `5.x` series.

`3.6.x` releases support Linux and OS X on [Mono](http://www.mono-project.com/).

## Change Log

See [ChangeLog.md](https://github.com/rabbitmq/rabbitmq-dotnet-client/blob/master/ChangeLog.md).

## Building from Source

Please see [How to Run Tests](./RUNNING_TESTS.md) and [Building .NET Core](./BUILD_DOTNET_CORE.md)
for build process overview.

## Contributing

See [Contributing](./CONTRIBUTING.md) and [How to Run Tests](./RUNNING_TESTS.md).


## License

This package, the RabbitMQ .NET client library, is double-licensed under
the Mozilla Public License 1.1 ("MPL") and the Apache License version 2 ("ASL").
